joining us here is in the studio is
tamama kamut uh professor of public
policy at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies thanks again for
joining us let's just stick with Jake
Sullivan's trip to to the region uh to
begin with I mean the Americans have uh
reiterated that they want Israel to
lower the intensity of its war in Gaza
but Israel has pushed back time and time
again saying they're going to continue
until they have quote This n netanyahu's
quote absolute Victory it doesn't appear
at this stage no matter what the US says
that Israel is going to listen they're
going to continue doing whatever they
want is that how you see it yes Tom I
mean obviously both Israel and the US
are still United over the same goal
which is toppling down
Hamas um and that's a that's a big goal
to achieve I mean in my perspective it's
it's unrealistic goal I mean let's just
imagine the scenario I mean militarily
of course I mean Israel has the upper
hand I mean it will it will take more
time you know the the military conduct
of is is might be softer in the next
coming month but eventually they could
end Hamas military but still Hamas is an
idea Hamas is a political ideology so
let's assume let's just assume this
happens
and a reformed PA takes over the Gaza
Strip and then of course the US is the
guardian of democracy in the world
correct and then Palestinians organize
uh elections again and Hamas wins I mean
according to many reports I mean Hamas
popularity in the West Bank is the PO
was out yesterday show it's increasing
in Gaza and in the occupied West so
again what's going to happen next I mean
if we see another Hamas coming back
again through the elections door what
they're going to do next so the question
here is again the US is uh has helped
Israel to commit to an unrealistic goal
which is the eradication of Hamas
instead of opening a political path for
Israel to to engage with Hamas and by
this I mean there is no way to bring
peace to Palestine if a major political
party like Hamas is not engaged with
politically and the US instead of
supporting Israel to commit to this
unrealistic goal it should help Israel
to get down the tree also help Hamas
also to get involved in a political
process by removing the veto in Hamas
and labeling it as a terrorist
organization The veto on Hamas over the
Palestinian reconciliation meaning allow
pales reconciliation to materialize and
then you will have two legit solid
Partners this should be the approach the
US
uh be advocating for instead of siding
by Israel and helping Israel with with
this unrealistic crazy plan I would say
well Jake Sullivan is due to meet uh
president Israeli president Herzog uh in
the next few hours I mean they they're
obviously going to be talking about some
sort of political solution but that is
seeming unlikely at this point in time
because even the president is now
pushing back against any idea of a
two-state solution the the entire Israel
political mainstream I mean it's they're
pushing I mean I mean I mean not even
pushing against this I mean now they say
that o was a mistake so then then this
brings us where to Nowhere exactly so
then you have the US the International
Community committed to creating a
Palestinian State a free independent
Palestinian state that lives in peace
side by side to Israel but they're not
doing anything when it comes to real
mechanisms to influencing Israel
pressuring Israel to engage in peace to
for this to happen and that's the
problem it's they just they're going
around and around but the elephant in
the room is you have a an Israeli
rejection that is coming from a
right-wing fanatic religious government
that is not willing to engage even with
Oso now they want to diminish Oso to
kill Oso even and reoccupy Palestinian
territories so it's it's it's it's it's
the ugly truth now coming very blunt in
the face of the Americans the
International Community and sadly they
have engaged with this they have created
this this this this this status quo
because they have engaged with Israeli
policies that have avoided peace that
you know have not have not committed to
any any peace commitments so so the US
is is I mean it's in a difficult
position and I at the same time it's an
elections year in the US yes and I'm
aware that neither the Democrats nor the
Republicans are willing to take a risk
to antagonize Israel so big questions
and big decisions to come I guess on
that point though President Biden will
want this to be wrapped up as we've
heard as soon as possible so that they
can basically shift this issue in the
United States to one side and focus on
domestic issues is that is that
basically the main reason that we've
been hearing more and more that this war
uh needs to end from from the US point
of view yeah I think there are two
things here I mean the US is is
embarrassed by by the conduct of this
war and the crazy way Israel has
conducted this war you know inhumanely
and there is a growing public pressure
of course uh they're losing Arab
American voters I mean the risk is
Chicago is probably off the hook now so
yes they're playing into this now so
it's damage control now and containment
that's the US position okay thank you so
much T we really do appreciate your time
we'll talk to you out throughout talk to
you again throughout the day here pleas